#14800 API design: POST request for "Run live query" endpoint (#15508)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/REST API/rest-api.md

### Run live query

> > This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [deprecated endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/fleet-v4.41.1/docs/REST%20API/rest-api.md#run-live-query) is maintained for backwards compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.43.0, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [deprecated endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/fleet-v4.42.0/docs/REST%20API/rest-api.md#run-live-query) is maintained for backwards compatibility.
```

> Runs a live query against the specified hosts and responds with the results after a fixed time period (default 25 seconds). 

Author: ```suggestion
Runs a live query against the specified hosts and responds with the results.
```

> Runs a live query against the specified hosts and responds with the results after a fixed time period (default 25 seconds). 

Author: ```suggestion
Runs a live query against the specified hosts and responds with the results. If the host is offline, the request will time out after a fixed time period (default 25 seconds). 
```

> This API does not return any results until the fixed time period elapses, at which point all of the collected results are returned.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The API will wait for responses up until a fixed time period elapses (default 25 seconds), at which point all of the collected results are returned. (Results are returned sooner if all targeted hosts have responded before that time.)

Author: ```suggestion
If some targeted hosts haven't responded, the live query will stop after 25 seconds (or whatever time period is configured), and all collected results are returned.
```

> The fixed time period is configurable via environment variable on the Fleet server (e.g. `FLEET_LIVE_QUERY_REST_PERIOD=90s`). If setting a higher value than the default, be sure not to exceed your load balancer timeout.

Author: ```suggestion
The timeout period is configurable via environment variable on the Fleet server (e.g. `FLEET_LIVE_QUERY_REST_PERIOD=90s`). If setting a higher value than the default, be sure not to exceed your load balancer timeout.
```

> `POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/:id/run`

Author: ```suggestion
`POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/:id/run/:host_id`
```

#### Parameters

| Name      | Type  | In   | Description                                                                                                                                                        |
|-----------|-------|------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| query_id | integer | path | **Required**. The ID of the saved query to run. |

> | host_ids  | array | body | **Required**. The IDs of the hosts to target. User must be authorized to target all of these hosts.                                                                |

Author: ```suggestion
| host_id  | array | path | **Required**. The ID of the host to target.                                                               |
```

#### Example

> `POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/123/run`

Author: Update this to be for 1 host:
```suggestion
`POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/123/run/:host_id`
```

> `POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/123/run`

Author: ```suggestion
`POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/123/run/3`
```

### Run live query

> This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [deprecated endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/fleet-v4.41.1/docs/REST%20API/rest-api.md#run-live-query) is maintained for backwards compatibility.

> Run one or more live queries against the specified hosts and responds with the results

Author: ```suggestion
Runs a live query against the specified hosts and responds with the results
```

### Run live query

> > This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [old endpoint]() is maintained for backwards compatibility.

Author: ```suggestion
> This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [old endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/docs/Contributing/API-for-contributors.md#run-live-query-deprecated) is maintained for backwards compatibility.
```

> > This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [deprecated endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/fleet-v4.41.1/docs/REST%20API/rest-api.md#run-live-query) is maintained for backwards compatibility.

Author: TODO: update with release when this is scheduled

> > This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [old endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/docs/Contributing/API-for-contributors.md#run-live-query-deprecated) is maintained for backwards compatibility.

Author: TODO: Update version once this feature is scheduled for release

> > This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [old endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/main/docs/Contributing/API-for-contributors.md#run-live-query-deprecated) is maintained for backwards compatibility.

Author: ```suggestion
> This updated API endpoint replaced `GET /api/v1/fleet/queries/run` in Fleet 4.x.x, for improved compatibility with many HTTP clients. The [deprecated endpoint](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/fleet-v4.41.1/docs/REST%20API/rest-api.md#run-live-query) is maintained for backwards compatibility.
```

The fixed time period is configurable via environment variable on the Fleet server (eg.
`FLEET_LIVE_QUERY_REST_PERIOD=90s`). If setting a higher value, be sure that you do not exceed your
load balancer timeout.

> WARNING: This API endpoint collects responses in-memory (RAM) on the Fleet compute instance handling this request, which can overflow if the result set is large enough.  This has the potential to crash the process and/or cause an autoscaling event in your cloud provider, depending on how Fleet is deployed.

`POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/:id/run`

#### Parameters

| Name      | Type  | In   | Description                                                                                                                                                        |
|-----------|-------|------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | query_ids | array | path | **Required**. The ID of the saved query to run. |

Author: ```suggestion
| query_id | integer | path | **Required**. The ID of the saved query to run. |
```

Runs a live query against the specified host and responds with the results. If the host is offline, the request will time out after a fixed time period (default 25 seconds).

The fixed time period is configurable via environment variable on the Fleet server (e.g. `FLEET_LIVE_QUERY_REST_PERIOD=90s`). If setting a higher value than the default, be sure not to exceed your load balancer timeout.

`POST /api/v1/fleet/queries/:id/run/:host_id`

#### Parameters

| Name      | Type  | In   | Description                                                                                                                                                        |
|-----------|-------|------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| query_id | integer | path | **Required**. The ID of the saved query to run. |

> | host_id  | integer | path | **Required**. The ID of the host to target. |

Author: ```suggestion
| host_ids  | array | body | **Required**. The IDs of the hosts to target. |
```

  },

>   "live_query_results": [

Author: TODO: promote `results` to the top level
